Modified from:

- `NET:HAMEKA\LEARN\BIOTECH\BIOCOMPUTING.NT` (retrieved March 8, 2122)
- `NET:HAMEKA\LEARN\BIOTECH\DOLL.NT` (retrieved March 8, 2122)

# Biocomputing

## What is Biocomputing?

Biocomputing is a generic term for computing technology that relies on man-made constructions of neurological systems. In terms of hardware, biocomputers are similar to the neurological systems of humans and animals. These computers consist of one or more biological processors, or "brains", connected to numerous input and output devices with wires called "nerves".

## Origin of Biocomputing

Two areas of science are required for designing biocomputers - the medical knowledge of the neurological system and its workings, and the ability of biotechnology manufacturers to recreate such systems. In the 2010s, the poor development in these two areas meant that biocomputing was limited to simple logic gate and memory devices. Scientific development picked up momentum afterwards, but was quickly stunted and would not recover for decades due to the Reformative War. During the war, multiple large cities using artificial intelligence (AI) management systems were compromised, leading to mass casualties and the complete loss of public services and productivity. In hindsight, this was due to the rudimentary cybersecurity standards of the time. However, the view of AI in the public was very negative at the time, and it caused governments to cut most of their funding to the development of AI technologies and their applications. What little research continued was dedicated to cybersecurity and the maintenance of AI infrastructure that could not be removed, and this technology stagnated around the world.

This would change in the summer of 2055, when the first true biocomputer, the Mark I Rodent Cognitive Replicant (RCR-I), was developed by a well-known British university. The RCR-I was a non-living recreation of a rat's brain and central nervous system using biologically-derived materials. Scientists scanned the brain of a rat using a state-of-the-art Leibniz scanning process and constructed a replica using the model they obtained. The resulting biocomputer took up the space of half a room, but it is important to note that the "brain" only took up about 5% of the space in the entire machine. Most of the space was occupied by cooling, protection for the fragile bioprocessors, and other support systems. While its computational power was poor in a pure mathematical sense, the biocomputer could be trained to complete pattern-matching and object recognition tasks that were considered challenging for computing applications in silicon. Subsequent revisions optimized the heat efficiency of bioprocessors and the internal design of the biocomputer, and the research team was able to reduce the size of their fifth machine to that of a typical desktop computer. But how were these studies allowed? It turned out that the British government had managed to avoid inciting public outcry by emphasizing biocomputing research as an avenue into neurological and mental health research. After all, it was true that many important findings about animal behavior and cognitive functions we know today came from simulations using these RCR machines. With neurological machines posed as a tool for healthcare research, and not artificial intelligence, they were easily accepted and biocomputing research continued.

## Applications of Biocomputing

As AI technology became more widely accepted in the following decades, biocomputing would find its niche as a more humanlike alternative for inorganic AI solutions. Multiple studies found biocomputers much more capable than traditional AI-focused computers at identifying and predicting events, and as such, they have became more attractive in high performance applications ever since they were introduced. Furthermore, biocomputing has become significantly much cheaper and more compact since its early days. Today, even small tech startups are using biocomputing technology for management and manufacturing tasks. Biocomputing has since replaced most traditional AI computers, and the effects of biocomputing development have led to the thousand-fold increase in market share from 2070 to 2120.

- - -

# History of AFOS

AFOS (Angelframe Operating System, originally stylized as AfOS) is HAMEKA's framework for artificial intelligence (AI). It was released in 2058 with the goal of improving the behavior of drones in competitive combat. This development era meant that AFOS was designed for both semiconductor-based and biological computers - a unique feature, that at least in the beginning, led to its adoption not just by billion-dollar arms conglomerates seeking the potential brought about by biocomputing, but by smaller businesses competing in regional levels of combat sports as well. However, AFOS would never dominate the defense AI market outside of these formative years, as AFOS only ran on HAMEKA AI computers, and HAMEKA only sold their most powerful AI hardware and software to corporations that had formed the closest relationships with them.

## First Generation

Due to limitations in the number of supported neurons and calculation speeds, applications of AFOS 1 were often restricted to static defenses and less mobile platforms like drones and mobile artillery. Equipment controlled by AFOS 1 can receive commands remotely, or in a fully autonomous fashion. Despite data-link functionality being present, limited computational abilities meant that the ability to perform synchronized actions was also limited. Furthermore, with poor object recognition and navigational capabilities, AFOS 1 would be easily bested by humans operating less sophisticated equipment. Well-known critics of the AI movement in combat sports described the tool as one where users "pay more for less", and their equipment as "herds of cats."

## Second Generation

AFOS 2 was officially released in 2065. Improvements in computational power and networking abilities meant that AFOS 2 was able to match the performance of manned crews when operating most surface vehicles. In addition, the release of AFOS 2 coincided with the mass adoption of combat droids. AFOS 2 equipment was capable of mimicking human performance during vehicular combat, but was found to be lacking in many areas associated with human intelligence, like risk management and spatial awareness. Weakness of AFOS 2 were circumvented by operating in open areas whenever possible, and the main strategy of using and fighting against AFOS 2 was to use large swarms of cheaply-made machines to overwhelm the enemy team.

The second generation would see the introduction of AFOS 2M, a manned variant of AFOS that would change the engineering landscape for high-end machinery. It was marketed as a virtual co-pilot for simplifying the operation of heavy equipment, most notably trains and aircraft. The system could be used to automate checklists and procedures, and assisted with the management of navigation and communication systems, allowing the pilot to focus solely on the controls. Later revisions included features like callouts for various dangerous situations, fully automatic autopilot based on flight plans, and for military users, weapon system management. AFOS 2M could run on HAMEKA's first generation biocomputers, which were very affordable by this time. It was now feasible to automate civil aviation completely, and some airlines attempted to modify AFOS 2M and similar tools by other companies to do so. Despite this, HAMEKA has always maintained that AFOS 2M was only to be used as an assistant or flight engineer, and the airlines should remain manned by two pilots per plane, possibly to avoid legal issues and reduce the negative public perception of a company developing dangerous technologies to be used on the populace, and attempting to replace a highly skilled workforce of pilots.

Notable machines using AFOS 2:

- AQF-21 "Kojiro", the debut machine of HAMEKA AVIAROID UNIT
- AVX-series early articulated-frame drone

## Third Generation

AFOS 3 was released in 2072, and brought various improvements to computational abilities. This addressed the limitations of AFOS 2, and the close-range combat capabilities of droids and fighter planes were finally able to surpass that of humans. Humans would be able to catch up in the 80s, when mental and physical augments became commonplace in the combat sports scene. AFOS 3 was introduced as part of HAMEKA's new ecosystem of defense-grade biotechnology, including autoregenerating artificial skin and muscle-based actuators. However, the third-generation biocomputing system could still operate mechanical machines like its predecessors.

With intelligence levels of AFOS 3 reaching levels high enough for human work, the "C" (civil) variant of AFOS 3 was soon developed. AFOS 3C was developed from a standard edition of AFOS 3 for military droids. WIth an understanding of social expectations and environments, AFOS 3C systems could be used in populated areas safely for security and construction work. AFOS 3C was provided in varying levels of expected autonomy. One could choose fully intelligent models capable of fully autonomous operation, to models with zero autonomy and were remotely controlled by humans. Different behavioral presets were also available - it was ideal to have a droid that could carry out orders from a human operator, and nothing more.
