# Artificial Human Threat Detection

All artificial human models, including civilian designs, include threat detection routines for completing tasks or self-preservation. These routines access sensory inputs and use computational resources in a manner similar to that of real humans.

During normal activities, traditionally referred to as Normal Mode, threat detection routines are typically completed as background tasks in the subconscious layer to minimize their impacts on productivity. The proportion of total resources allocated to threat detection in Normal Mode varies between artificial human architectures, and there is a positive association between high expected risks in Normal Mode and high resource allocation in Normal Mode.

When the normal threat detection routine picks up a potential threat, it enters Standby Mode. The sensory inputs, which are tied to the threat detection routine, are also made more sensitive. In addition, the routine gradually draws in more computational resources and elevates its own priority to the conscious level. This increases the routine's ability to match the sensory inputs to the subconscious memory of known threat patterns. If a threat is truly present, the resources can be immediately transferred to an applicable fight-or-flight routine. However, more often than not, the threat detection routine determines that there is no real threat and returns to Normal Mode.

Proper tuning of the threat detection routine is necessary for reliable detection of hazards. Higher resource demands in Normal Mode result in greater energy consumption and reduced performance for all conscious activities, but is critical for detecting and identifying potential hazards in the first place. This is the rationale behind choosing high resource demands for artificial human systems in the military and civil security sectors. Another factor to consider is the threshold which the threat detection routine is elevated from a subconscious task to a conscious one. In addition to taking over normal tasks too frequently, a low threshold also causes over-stimulation of the biocomputer to threat patterns. If the threat warning is rescinded too frequently during conscious threat detection, the conscious layer of the model will start to ignore subsequent threat warnings. Eventually, this leads to the inability to detect or handle threats, becoming a hazard in its own right.
